.TH "modify_bagit" "1" "https://avpres.net/Bash_AVpres/" "2022-12-31" "Bash Scripts for AVpres"
.
.\" turn off justification for nroff
.if n .ad l
.\" turn off hyphenation
.nh
.
.de Sp \" vertical space (when .PP is not used)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Vb \" begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" end verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.SH NAME
modify_bagit - Modify a BagIt archive, according to RFC 8493
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmodify_bagit\fR (\fB-b\fR|\fB-i\fR) \fIinput_folder\fR [\fB-v \fIbagit_version\fR]
.LP
\fBmodify_bagit -h\fR | \fB-x
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBBash AVpres\fR is a collection of Bash scripts for audio-visual preservation. One of these small programs is \fBmodify_bagit\fR. It allows to modify the BagIt version, according to the "BagIt File Packaging Format", as designed by the Library of Congress in the U.S.A. and standardised under RFC 8493.
.PP
Bash version 3.2 or later is strongly recommended. We advise to use the current version 5.2.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS BASIC OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB-b \fIinput_folder\fB, --bagit=\fIinput_folder
input folder
.Sp
This replaces the \fIinput_folder\fR by its BagIt archive, containing the original folder, and is faster.
.TP
\fB-i \fIinput_folder\fB, --input=\fIinput_folder
input folder
.TP
\fB-v \fIbagit_version\fR, \fB--version=\fIbagit_version
RFC 8493 defines BagIt version 1.0 and \fBmodify_bagit\fR uses this by default.
.Sp
For compatibility reasons, however, the values from 0.93 to 0.97 are also considered valid and supported.
.SS ADVANCED OPTIONS
.TP 4
The script needs an external command to compute recursively the hash checksums of all elements inside the folder.
.TP
.B --sha512='/bin/sha512sum'
SHA-512 command
.TP
.B --md5='/bin/md5sum'
MD5 command
.TP
.B --sha1='/bin/sha1sum'
SHA-1 command
.TP
.B --sha256='/bin/sha256sum'
SHA-256 command
.TP
.B --crc32='/bin/crc32'
CRC-32 command
.TP
.B --xxh32='/bin/xxhsum -H32'
xxHash 32 command
.TP
.B --xxh64='/bin/xxhsum -H64'
xxHash 64 command
.TP
.B --xxh128='/bin/xxhsum -H128'
xxHash 128 command
.SS INFORMATIVE OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h, --help
display a help message
.TP
.B -x, --options
display the advanced options with their default arguments
.SH NOTES
.TP 4
Currently \fBmodify_bagit\fR allows only to modify the version of a BagIt archive. Other possibilities may follow in future releases.
.SS BAGIT ARCHIVE STRUCTURE
.TP 4
The structure of a BagIt archive is:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&bagit.txt
\&data/<archive_content>
\&manifest-<algorithm>.txt
\&[bag-info.txt]
\&[fetch.txt]
\&[tagmanifest-<algorithm>.txt]
.Ve
.TP
Only the 'bagit.txt' and 'manifest-<algorithm>.txt' files are mandatory, in addition to the 'data' folder, which contains the actual content of the archive.
.TP
According to RFC 8493, the 'bag-info.txt' and 'tagmanifest-<algorithm>.txt' files are optional and \fBmodify_bagit\fR updates 'tagmanifest-<algorithm>.txt' when present in the BagIt archive folder.
.SS CONFIGURATION FILE
.TP 4
An external configuration file
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&${HOME}/.config/AVpres/Bash_AVpres/modify_bagit.txt
.Ve
.TP
can be defined, allowing the script to import alternate default values for the following options:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&bagit_version
\&md5
\&sha1
\&sha256
\&sha512
\&crc32
\&xxh32
\&xxh64
\&xxh128
.Ve
.SS LOG FILES
.TP 4
Temporary log files are stored at
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&/tmp/AVpres/modify_bagit.XXXXXXXXXX
.Ve
.TP
The log files can be used for debugging, for example by running \fBcat\fR on the address prompted with fatal error messages:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&cat /tmp/AVpres/modify_bagit.XXXXXXXXXX
.Ve
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 4
\fBRFC 8493\fR, "The BagIt File Packaging Format (V1.0)", October 2018
.br
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8493
.TP
\fBRFC 1321\fR, "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm", April 1992
.br
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1321
.TP
\fBRFC 3174\fR, "US Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA1)", September 2001
.br
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3174
.TP
"Descriptions of SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512"
.br
https://web.archive.org/web/20130526224224/http://csrc.nist.gov/
.br
groups/STM/cavp/documents/shs/sha256-384-512.pdf
.TP
\fBmake_bagit\fR(1), \fBundo_bagit\fR(1), \fBupdate_bagit\fR(1) and \fBverify_bagit\fR(1).
.TP
\fBmd5sum\fR(1), \fBsha1sum\fR(1), \fBsha256sum\fR(1), \fBsha512sum\fR(1) and \fBxxhsum\fR(1).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2021-2023 by Reto Kromer
.SH LICENSE
The \fBmodify_bagit\fR Bash script is released under a 3-Clause BSD License.
.SH DISCLAIMER
The \fBmodify_bagit\fR Bash script is provided "as is" without warranty or support of any kind.
