.TH "verify_ffv1" "1" "https://avpres.net/Bash_AVpres/" "2022-12-31" "Bash Scripts for AVpres"
.
.\" turn off justification for nroff
.if n .ad l
.\" turn off hyphenation
.nh
.
.de Sp \" vertical space (when .PP is not used)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Vb \" begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" end verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.SH NAME
verify_ffv1 - Verify fixity and a few parameters of a Matroska/FFV1 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBverify_ffv1 -i \fIinput_file
.LP
\fBverify_ffv1 -h\fR | \fB-x
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBBash AVpres\fR is a collection of Bash scripts for audio-visual preservation. One of these small programs is \fBverify_ffv1\fR. It verifies the fixity and a few parameters of a Matroska/FFV1 file.
.PP
Bash version 3.2 or later is strongly recommended. We advise to use the current version 5.2.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS BASIC OPTION
.TP 4
\fB-i \fIinput_file\fB, --input=\fIinput_file
input file
.SS ADVANCED OPTIONS
.TP 4
The default arguments of the advanced options can be overwritten by the user. Please remember that any string containing spaces must be quoted, or its spaces must be escaped.
.TP
.B --ffmpeg='/bin/ffmpeg'
path to the \fBffmpeg\fR command
.TP
.B --ffprobe='/bin/ffprobe'
path to the \fBffprobe\fR command
.TP
.B --suffix='_ffv1'
The suffix is inserted at the end of the filename, immediately before the period and the extension. Note that a preceding underscore, if wished, must be added.
.TP
.B --extension='mkv'
Matroska is the "natural" container for the FFV1 video codec, but others are possible.
.SS INFORMATIVE OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B -h, --help
display a help message
.TP
.B -x, --options
display the advanced options with their default arguments
.SH NOTES
The Audio Video Interleave container ('.avi' files) is also supported by \fBmake_ffv1\fR and \fBverify_ffv1\fR.
.SS CONFIGURATION FILE
.TP 4
An external configuration file
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&${HOME}/.config/AVpres/Bash_AVpres/verify_ffv1.txt
.Ve
.TP
can be defined, allowing the script to import alternate default values for the following options:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&ffmpeg_bin
\&ffprobe_bin
\&suffix
\&extension
.Ve
.SS LOG FILES
.TP 4
Temporary log files are stored at
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&/tmp/AVpres/verify_ffv1.XXXXXXXXXX
.Ve
.TP
The log files can be used for debugging, for example by running \fBcat\fR on the address prompted with fatal error messages:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&cat /tmp/AVpres/verify_ffv1.XXXXXXXXXX
.Ve
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 4
\fBmake_ffv1\fR(1).
.TP
\fBffmpeg\fR(1) and \fBffprobe\fR(1).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2012-2023 by Reto Kromer
.SH LICENSE
The \fBverify_ffv1\fR Bash script is released under a 3-Clause BSD License.
.SH DISCLAIMER
The \fBverify_ffv1\fR Bash script is provided "as is" without warranty or support of any kind.
